# 08.03: CI/CD in the Cloud 🔄

Welcome to the core of modern software development and operations— Continuous Integration and Continuous Delivery, also known as CI/CD. At its heart, CI/CD is about merging all developers working copies to a shared mainline (Integration), and delivering the application to the customer quickly and reliably (Delivery).

## Continuous Integration (CI) 🔄

No longer do software houses rest on gigantic, infrequent code shaking updates. Instead, we now live in the age of micro-updates and real-time release cycles. How is this made possible? The magician behind the curtain is CI.

CI encourages developers to frequently commit their code (preferably multiple times a day). These commits are then automatically built and tested. Catching defects early and solving them can decrease the overall cost to the system.

Here is an example of CI workflow using Jenkins, a popular CI tool:

```Yaml
pipeline {
    agent any

    stages {
        stage('Build') {
            steps {
                echo 'Building..'
                sh './gradlew build'
            }
        }
        stage('Test'){
            steps{
                echo 'Testing..'
                sh './gradlew check'
            }
        }
    }
}
```

This simple Jenkins Pipeline script will execute the 'Build' and 'Test' stages on any changes committed to the repository.

## Continuous Delivery (CD) 🛫

Once we've ensured our changes are sound (via CI), it's time for CD to shine. CD automates the delivery of applications to designated infrastructure environments. Most teams work with multiple environments (such as Development, Staging, and Production) and CD ensures there is an automated way to push code changes to them.

Here is an example of CD workflow using Jenkins:

```Yaml
pipeline {
    agent any

    stages {
        stage('Deploy-Dev'){
            steps{
                echo 'Deploying to Dev..'
                sh './gradlew deployDev'
            }
        }
        stage('Deploy-Prod'){
            steps{
                echo 'Deploying to Prod..'
                sh './gradlew deployProd'
            }
        }
    }
}
```

This pipeline will ensure the new changes are automatically deployed to both the Dev and Prod environments.

## CI/CD in the Cloud ☁️

Having CI/CD in the cloud comes with the perks like scalability, disaster recovery, and reduced cost. Tools like AWS CodePipeline and Google Cloud Build provide out-of-box services for setting up complete CI/CD pipelines, saving development teams a considerable amount of time.

Without question, CI/CD has become the core –the heart that pumps life into project's code, both in terms of its day-to-day growth and long-term longevity. To embrace CI/CD is to embrace an essential rhythm within the software lifecycle—a rhythm that affords your applications both the agility to grow and the robustness to perform consistently.